whats up youtube this is evil boy and
today I'd like to talk about a knife
that's pretty interesting for
price-conscious steel enthusiasts this
year is the Miller MSP liner lock with
an s 90 V blade and then obviously blue
g10 handle there's also an origin of
black g10 handle version available as
well as several different wood materials
for the handle scales I not moolah is a
German custom knife maker who also
distributes some production knives under
his name brand these are manufactured in
Italy I'm not sure how popular his
knives are outside of Germany so far i
only found two non-german videos on
youtube featuring a miller knife but the
general opinion on this knife was quite
positive especially the price
considering the high quality materials
what also makes it interesting for
german cash customers is the fact that
it is a two hand opening knife so you
can legally carry it in public by the
way if you are interested in purchasing
this knife this can only be done through
I'm hot Millers online store
unfortunately it is only a German but
feel free to send mr. Miller and email
he does speak English and ships
worldwide but now let's turn into the
knife and check the specs real quick the
plate length is 85 millimeters the
handle length is 115 millimeters which
results in an overall length of 200
millimeters blade thickness is 3.7
millimeters and the rate is 140 grams
the first thing I noticed was that this
is a very beefy knife the handle is
pretty thick s are the steel liners
which are not mailed out by the way
the g10 offers very good traction
comparable to the american-made spyderco
knives like the paramilitary 2 or the
MINIX to the pocket clip can only be
mounted on the right-hand side and then
tip down carry position however you can
order this knife from mr. Miller with
with the clip mounted in the left hand
tip down carry position you have to
mention this in your order the knife is
screwed together with torque screws and
is an open construction good for easy
maintenance the locking mechanism is as
the name suggests a liner lock which
works fine there are some jumping on the
liner which helps disengaging lock as
the liner is pretty thick and thus hard
to push over as I mentioned before the
blade is made of the high-end CPM s9 TV
steel which offers superior corrosion
resistance and edge retention this of
course makes the knife quite difficult
to sharpen the blade is flat ground with
a satin finish and has some very
aggressive jumping on the spine
for hard work I recommend wearing gloves
or change the grip to a more backwards
position the blade has no man leak but
rather these three grooves on each side
which are filled with some rough
material for extra traction with some
practice you might even be able to open
the blade one-handed but of course
there's always a but some may call this
nitpicking but there are some flaws that
i think are worth mentioning first there
is an imperfection in the steel of the
blade i try to show you that right right
here
maybe these are air pockets that happen
during the sintering process of the
steel but i'm not expert on that
considering the size and the positioning
of those small bubbles take that as a
minor blemish nah yet let us look at the
crime it ends about ten millimeters
before the ricasso that in my opinion is
a waste of cutting edge and should be
improved talking about cutting edge the
initial shortness was moderate at best I
was really worried about getting the
knife sharp but with lots of patience
and strokes on the spyderco sharp maker
I eventually managed to get a satisfying
edge which even shakes try to shave
little
but this too i'd like to see improved
played center ring well it's not
completely off but it's not spot on
either however i've seen other MSP Lana
looks with the perfect plates and rings
hope so this is probably just bad luck
from lock to lock the locking power
locks way early when opening the light
the knife slowly I'm not sure how much
force the blade could take before the
lock disengaged when opening the blade
with authority though locking bar stops
later so my recommendation always open
the knife with authority just to make
sure and to be cool but maybe the lock
just needs to be worked in one more
thing I'd like to see changed other
washers which are made of nylon or some
other polymer I've asked the local
workshop for some bronze voters and i
will try them out not their eyes any
blade play whatsoever but i figured the
washers should match up with the other
high quality materials used in this
knife alright that was a lot of
complaining but my general opinion about
this knife still is positive first of
all i'm always happy to support the
local knife industry then of course you
get very high quality materials and good
ergonomics for a very reasonable price
and on top of this this thing is legal
to carry around here to be honest i am
seriously considering buying another one
despite all the flaws i mentioned which
most likely and hopefully won't limit
its application so that's it for today
folks
thank you very much for watching be sure
to check out my other videos and if you
like what you see please subscribe to my
channel I'm trying to put out videos on
a regular basis thanks again and see you
around